Mithril update 2026-07-29 (#813)
IntersectMBO/cardano-updates: blog/2026-07-29-mithril.md

---
title: Mithril Team Update
slug: 2026-07-29-mithril
authors: jpraynaud
tags: [mithril]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level overview

This week, the Mithril team completed the benchmarks for the IVC SNARK recursive circuit and the analysis and optimization of the testing strategy for the STM SNARK modules. They also worked on encoding the aggregate signature of the certificate message as bytes, which significantly reduces the size of the certificates.

The team also continued implementing the aggregator CLI commands and the runbook for on-chain configuration parameters, and started creating a local IPFS network for the proof of concept of Cardano database artifacts distribution.

> Finally, the team completed the repository transfer to the IntersectMBO organization and continued working on shipping the Mithril signer node binary in the Cardano node bundle, the `2630` distribution release, the upgrade to Cardano node v.11.1, the update of the DMQ node to `0.7.0.0`, and the updates of the documentation website to `docusaurus` `3.10.2` and `tailwind` `v4`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This week, the Mithril team completed benchmarks for the IVC SNARK recursive circuit and analyzed and optimized the testing strategy for the STM SNARK modules. They also worked on encoding the aggregate signature of the certificate message as bytes, which significantly reduces the size of the certificates.

The team also continued implementing the aggregator CLI commands and the runbook for on-chain configuration parameters, and began creating a local IPFS network for a proof-of-concept distribution of Cardano database artifacts.

Finally, they completed the repository transfer to the IntersectMBO organization. They also continued working on shipping the Mithril signer node binary in the Cardano node bundle, preparing the `2630` distribution release, upgrading to Cardano node v.11.1, updating the DMQ node to `0.7.0.0`, and upgrading the documentation website to Docusaurus `3.10.2` and `tailwind` `v4`.
```
